Documentation: Add UML diagrams (#192058)
NixOS/nixpkgs: doc/contributing/contributing-to-documentation.chapter.md

  > :   green fruit with red flesh

For contributing to the legacy parts, please see [DocBook: The Definitive Guide](https://tdg.docbook.org/) or the [DocBook rocks! primer](https://web.archive.org/web/20200816233747/https://docbook.rocks/).

## Diagrams

> 
> Diagrams are provided to contextualize the amount of information and processes
> into something more visual.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to motivate this here.

```suggestion
```

But we may add a note at the end that more diagrams are welcome.

> The diagrams are generated using [Plantuml][plantuml website] and the sources
> are available in this repository, in `doc/diagrams`. Find plethora of examples
> and documentation also on the [Plantuml][plantuml website].
> 
> The procedure to submit changes for these diagrams follow the usual process with
> Github pull-requests including the relevant changes except that pull-requests
> must include a link to the updated diagram using the web interface from
> [Plantuml][plantuml web interface website] or [Planttext][planttext website] so
> we can visually review the new changes.
> 
> To render diagrams locally use
> 
> ```shell
> nix-shell '<nixpkgs>' --pure -p plantuml --run "plantuml path/to/diagram.plantuml"
> ```
> 
> Or if you're using flake
> 
> ```
> nix run nixpkgs#plantuml path/to/diagram.plantuml
> ```
> 
> [plantuml website]: https://plantuml.com/
> [plantuml web interface website]: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/
> [planttext website]: https://planttext.com/

Reviewer: - you can use implicit reference links for better readability and easier maintainance
- link to source files for easier disovery
- put reference links close to where they are used
- GitHub calls it "pull request", therefore so do we
- use short sentences where possible
- it seems, the Nixpkgs manual does not document flake-based workflows. let's keep it consistent then.
- since there is no automatic process, we need a note that it has to be taken care of manually.
- present command line examples such that it is absolutely clear how to change them to actually work, or in a way that no change is neccessary

````suggestion
The diagrams in this manual are generated using [Plantuml].
Their sources are available in [`/doc/diagrams`][diagrams].

Currently there is automated process to render images from those sources and include them in the manual.
Therefore, rendered images have to be added and updated manually.

When making a pull request to change a diagram, to ease review, please provide a link to a rendering of the updated diagram in the pull request description.
Generate a link with the [Plantuml web interface] or [Planttext].

[diagrams]: https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/tree/master/doc/diagrams
[Plantuml]: https://plantuml.com/
[Plantuml web interface]: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/
[Planttext]: https://planttext.com/

To render diagrams locally, run the following command in your copy of the `nixpkgs` Git repository:

```shell
nix-shell '<nixpkgs>' --pure -p plantuml --run "plantuml doc/diagrams/*.plantuml"
```
````
